To face the global sustainability issues arising from rapid industry
development and population increase, many efforts have been made to develop new
materials and technologies toward renewable energy and environmental improvement.
Zeolites are a family of crystalline materials with orderly distributed micropores
in molecular dimensions. As the most important solid catalysts used in traditional
petrochemical industries, zeolites are also finding promising applications in many
sustainable processes given their unique shape selectivity, adsorption and ion-exchange
capability, high hydrothermal stability, tunable acidity and polarity, and low production costs.
In this review, we present the state-of-the-art applications of zeolites as potential solutions
to the sustainability issues, including biomass conversion, fuel cells, thermal energy storage,
CO2 capture and conversion, air-pollution remediation, and water purification, etc.
This review highlights recent developments in the synthesis and unconventional applications
of nanosized microporous crystals including framework (zeolites) and layered (clays) type
materials. Owing to their microporous nature nanosized zeolites and clays exhibit novel
properties, different from those of bulk materials. The factors controlling the formation
of nanosized microporous crystals are first revised. The most promising approaches from the
viewpoint of large-scale production of nanosized zeolites and clays are discussed in depth.
The preparation and advanced applications of nanosized zeolites and clays in free (suspension
and powder forms) and fixed (films) forms are summarized. Further the review emphasises
the non-conventional applications of new porous materials. A comprehensive analysis of the
emerging applications of microporous nanosized crystals in the field of semiconductor industry,
optical materials, chemical sensors, medicine, cosmetics, and food industry is presented.
Finally, the future needs and perspectives of nanosized microporous materials (zeolites
and clays) are addressed.
Zeolites, owing to their great variety and complexity in structure and wide applications
in chemistry, have long been the hot topic in chemical research. This perspective first
presents a short retrospect of theoretical investigations on zeolites using the tools from
classical force fields to quantum mechanics calculations and to the latest machine learning
(ML) potential simulations. ML potentials as the next- generation technique for atomic
simulation open new avenues to simulate and interpret zeolite systems and thus hold great
promise for finally predicting the structure–functionality relation of zeolites. Recent
advances using ML potentials are then summarized from two main aspects: the origin of
zeolite stability and the mechanism of zeolite-related catalytic reactions.
We also discussed the possible scenarios of ML potential application aiming to provide
instantaneous and easy access of zeolite properties. These advanced applications could
now be accomplished by combining cloud-computing-based techniques with ML potential-based
atomic simulations. The future development of ML potentials for zeolites in the respects
of improving the calculation accuracy, expanding the application scope and constructing
the zeolite-related datasets is finally outlooked.
Zeolites are inorganic materials known for their diversity of applications,
synthesis conditions, and resulting polymorphs. Although their synthesis is
controlled both by inorganic and organic synthesis conditions, computational
studies of zeolite synthesis have focused mostly on the design of organic
structure- directing agents (OSDAs). In this work, we combine distances between
crystal structures and machine learning (ML) to create inorganic synthesis maps in zeolites.
Starting with 253 known zeolites, we show how the continuous distances between frameworks
reproduce inorganic synthesis conditions from the literature without using labels such as
building units. An unsupervised learning analysis shows that neighboring zeolites according
to two different representations often share similar inorganic synthesis conditions, even in
OSDA-based routes. In combination with ML classifiers, we find synthesis-structure relationships
for 14 common inorganic conditions in zeolites, namely Al, B, Be, Ca, Co, F, Ga, Ge, K, Mg, Na,
P, Si, and Zn. By explaining the model predictions, we demonstrate how (dis)similarities towards
known structures can be used as features for the synthesis space, thus quantifying the intuition
that similar structures often share inorganic synthesis routes. Finally, we show how these
methods can be used to predict inorganic synthesis conditions for unrealized frameworks in
hypothetical databases and interpret the outcomes by extracting local structural patterns
from zeolites. In combination with OSDA design, this work can accelerate the exploration of
the space of synthesis conditions for zeolites.
We present a database of computationally predicted zeolite-like materials.
The materials were identified by a Monte Carlo search of Si atom positions as
the number of unique atoms, density, space group, and unit cell of the crystalline
material was systematically explored. Over 2.7M unique structures were identified,
with roughly 10% within the +30 kJ/mol Si energetic band above R-quartz in which the known
zeolites lie. Predicted structures within this band have geometric and topological
characteristics similar to that of the known zeolites. Known zeolites are shown to lie
on the low-density edge of the distribution of predicted structures. Dielectric constants
and X-ray powder diffraction patterns are calculated. Strategies for chemical synthesis of
these materials are discussed, a low-density subset of the materials is identified as
particularly interesting, and the complementarity of these materials to high-throughput
methods is discussed. These structures have been deposited in two publicly available databases.
Zeolites are porous, aluminosilicate materials with
many industrial and “green” applications. Despite their industrial
relevance, many aspects of zeolite synthesis remain poorly
understood requiring costly trial and error synthesis. In this
paper, we create natural language processing techniques and text
markup parsing tools to automatically extract synthesis informa-
tion and trends from zeolite journal articles. We further engineer a
data set of germanium-containing zeolites to test the accuracy of
the extracted data and to discover potential opportunities for
zeolites containing germanium. We also create a regression model for a
zeolite’s framework density from the synthesis conditions.
This model has a cross-validated root mean squared error of 0.98 T/1000 Å3,
and many of the model decision boundaries correspond to known synthesis heuristics in
germanium-containing zeolites. We propose that this automatic data extraction can be applied
to many different problems in zeolite synthesis and enable novel zeolite morphologies.
This preamble to a well-known television series captures the challenge encountered not only in
space travel adventures, but also in the field of porous materials, which aims to control the size,
shape and uniformity of the porous space and the atoms and molecules that define it.
The past decade has seen significant advances in the ability to fabricate new porous
solids with ordered structures from a wide range of different materials.
This has resulted in materials with unusual properties and broadened their application
range beyond the traditional use as catalysts and adsorbents. In fact, porous materials
now seem set to contribute to developments in areas ranging from microelectronics to medical
diagnosis.
Small differences between the lattice energies of different zeolites suggest that
kinetic factors are of major importance in controlling zeolite nucleation.
Thus, it is critical to control the nucleation kinetics in order to obtain a
desired microporous material. Here, we demonstrate how careful investigation of the
very early stages of zeolite crystallization in colloidal systems can provide access
to important nanoscale zeolite phases while avoiding the use of expensive organic templates.
We report the effective synthesis of ultrasmall (6- to 15-nanometer) crystals of the
large-pore zeolite EMT from template-free colloidal precursors at low temperature (30°C)
and very high yield.
Zeolites, nanoporous aluminosilicates with well-
defined porous structures, are versatile materials with applications
in catalysis, gas separation, and ion exchange. Hydrothermal
synthesis is widely used for zeolite production, offering control
over composition, crystallinity, and pore size. However, the
intricate interplay of synthesis parameters necessitates a compre-
hensive understanding of synthesis−structure relationships to
optimize the synthesis process. Hitherto, public zeolite synthesis
databases only contain a subset of parameters and are small in
scale, comprising up to a few thousand synthesis routes. We
present ZeoSyn, a dataset of 23,961 zeolite hydrothermal synthesis
routes, encompassing 233 zeolite topologies and 921 organic
structure-directing agents (OSDAs). Each synthesis route com-
prises comprehensive synthesis parameters: 1) gel composition, 2) reaction conditions, 3)
OSDAs, and 4) zeolite products. Using ZeoSyn, we develop a machine learning classifier to
predict the resultant zeolite given a synthesis route with >70% accuracy.
We employ SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) to uncover key synthesis parameters
for >200 zeolite frameworks. We introduce an aggregation approach to extend SHAP
to all building units. We demonstrate applications of this approach to phase-selective
and intergrowth synthesis. This comprehensive analysis illuminates the synthesis
parameters pivotal in driving zeolite crystallization, offering the potential to guide
the synthesis of desired zeolites.
It is shown that Machine Learning (ML) algorithms can usefully capture the effect of crystallization
composition and conditions (inputs) on key micro- structural characteristics (outputs) of
faujasite type zeolites (structure types FAU, EMT, and their intergrowths), which are widely
used zeolite catalysts and adsorbents. The utility of ML (in particular, Geometric Harmonics)
toward learning input-output relationships of interest is demonstrated, and a com- parison
with Neural Networks and Gaussian Process Regression, as alternative approaches, is provided.
Through ML, synthesis conditions were identified to enhance the Si/Al ratio of high purity
FAU zeolite to the hitherto highest level (i.e., Si/Al = 3.5) achieved via direct (not seeded),
and organic structure- directing-agent-free synthesis from sodium aluminosilicate sols.
The analysis of the ML algorithms’ results offers the insight that reduced Na2O content is
key to formulating FAU materials with high Si/Al ratio. An acid catalyst pre- pared by partial
ion exchange of the high-Si/Al-ratio FAU (Si/Al = 3.5) exhibits improved proton reactivity
(as well as specific activity, per unit mass of cata- lyst) in propane cracking and
dehydrogenation compared to the catalyst prepared from the previously reported highest
Si/Al ratio (Si/Al = 2.8).
